[WHOOSHING]
[CHIMES]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: You might know
my next guest, Dr. John Gray,
as a relationship expert and
author of the bestselling book,
"Men Are from Mars,
Women Are from Venus."
But what you may
not know is John
is a 50-year meditator, who
studied sacred techniques
with the Maharishi.
He was a celibate monk
who lived with Maharishi
as his personal
assistant for nine years.
And he's here today
to share with us
the natural
resonance meditation.
Welcome.
Thank you for being here.
>>JOHN GRAY: Thank you, Lisa.
My pleasure.
>>LISA: This is exciting.
>>GRAY: Yeah.
>>LISA: So this is
something that you
created over your years.
>>GRAY: Well, Maharishi taught
me transcendental meditation.
That was really big.
It still is, around the country.
The Beatles had gone to India.
And I had been in my room
listening to the Moody Blues.
And my mother walked in, and
she was in awe of this music
because they had this "Om."
And my mother was a meditator.
I didn't know.
And so she saw me.
I'm just sitting there,
listening to music.
She sat down,
meditated next to me.
And I got really high.
And then she saw the
poster on my wall.
I had a lot of Jimi Hendrix
posters and the whole thing.
And then there was
one of the Beatles,
with Maharishi
sitting in the center.
So she said, who's that?
And I didn't know.
But she had such
excitement about it.
I was curiosity
about meditation.
And then a few days
later-- synchronicity--
I was at the bowling alley,
and somebody said to me,
oh, there's a samurai
warrior demonstration.
You should go upstairs.
And I went, wow, because I was
in martial arts at the time.
And so I went up looking for
a martial arts demonstration,
and it was a transcendental
meditation seminar.
[LAUGHTER]
So my friend got the word right.
But when I heard the talk,
the basic, introductory talk
to transcendental meditation, it
just rang a bell inside of me.
It's like I was born
to hear that talk.
And when I came
home two hours late,
my dad said, so
why are you late?
And he thought I was off
with friends or something.
And I said, I went to the talk.
And he says, well,
what did you learn?
And I gave the whole talk.
I could still give
that whole talk.
It's right written in my heart.
It was a destiny for me.
It was one of those things where
all the bells in Heaven rang.
And I loved it.
I learned to meditate.
I did transcendental meditation.
It's where you close your
eyes, and you repeat a mantra.
And you just repeat the
mantra over and over and over.
And maybe you fall asleep,
or you go deep inside,
but afterwards,
you feel refreshed.
And it still works for people.
It's still wonderful.
But some people today--
they do it, or other
forms of meditation,
and they get bored with it.
They don't get the
benefits right away.
It's kind of a struggle.
>>LISA: The monkey mind starts.
>>GRAY: And the mind starts
going around and so forth.
And particularly women, not so
much men-- but still, many men
get bored with it or
don't see the point of it.
But many women are trying,
and they're trying.
Well, if you go to India,
where a lot of these techniques
were developed,
mantra meditations--
repeating a mantra-- if
you ask women in India,
do you meditate,
they go, oh, no.
It's too difficult--
too difficult
because my mind is
jumping around too much.
And back in the day, when
Buddha was teaching meditation,
Shankar was teaching
meditation, all these--
where it came from--
primarily, it was taught to men.
And it was taught
to men because it
helped strengthen masculinity.
To empty the mind is the
opposite of opening the heart.
Women were to open
their heart to increase
the female energies, for
women to find their ground.
And for men, if they
got too emotional,
like angry or
aggressive or whatever,
they would learn to
empty the mind, detach--
so the whole thing of
learning detachment.
Now, it turns out-- now that
we have modern science-- when
you learn to empty your mind,
your testosterone levels
will start to rise.
It's good for men.
But for women, if they're
trying to empty their mind,
and they need to get over
to their female side,
it may not be as productive.
If you look at yoga
classes today-- you know,
actually, my dad taught me
yoga at three years old.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>GRAY: We had seven kids,
and he put the mat out.
>>LISA: Oh, my goodness.
>>GRAY: And Houston, Texas--
who would've thought?
And we're doing our yoga
postures as little kids.
And then when I went to
India, I was so proud.
I'm going to India.
I'm getting up to do my yoga.
All the yogis do it alone.
It's a solitary thing.
Because whenever you're
alone, you're male hormones
get produced.
When you connect with
others, your female hormones
get produced.
And for men, particularly,
they need way
more testosterone than women.
So meditation was a
way you did alone.
You did yoga postures.
You did that alone.
Today, you see all the women
going to the yoga studios--
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>GRAY: --but they're
doing it together.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: And they're doing
it to beautiful music.
And they're doing it with
someone guiding them.
Guided meditation
stimulates estrogen.
Whereas doing your own thing,
repeating a mantra over
and over and over,
calms the mind
if you need more testosterone.
Now, if you take
meditation techniques,
and you look at what's happening
today in the world, women,
particularly, are way
on their male side
and often can't get back
to their female side.
So to do a technique
that helps produce
testosterone,
emptying the mind, can
be very boring and difficult
and challenging for them.
They don't get the
immediate benefits.
Some women do, but not all.
So being an expert on gender
differences in this whole thing
that I do for the last 40
years, and then before that 10
years just teaching meditation
and being with the Maharishi,
I was able to recognize a
technique that works as well
for women as works for men.
>>LISA: Ah, so we
get the oxytocin
and those great hormones.
>>GRAY: You get the female
hormones and the male hormones.
Because ultimately,
what we want is
to get into the flow, where
your genius comes forth,
and it's a effortless
flow of meditation.
And we're going to
experience that today,
with this technique.
>>LISA: Which is great.
>>GRAY: And it was never
taught in the past.
And the reason it
wasn't taught--
it was known in
the secret masters.
And I have studied in
Tibet, with masters,
and I've learned some of this
from them and adopted it.
>>LISA: Can I ask you how
did you meet the Maharishi?
>>GRAY: How did I
meet the Maharishi?
Uh, let me go back.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>GRAY: OK.
I went to the
introductory lecture.
I learned transcendental
meditation.
And then that year,
Maharishi came to America
for the first time,
for a big course.
It was in Poland Springs, Maine.
There were 1,000
people, 1,000 hippies.
We all went up there for
a month to hear lectures
from him all day long.
And the first lecture,
I was kind of late.
I got there, and I'm sitting
in the back of 1,000 people,
and I said, this is not
going to happen again.
But I was just a little kid.
I was like the
youngest person there,
like 17 years old with all
these grown-up 20-year-olds
and so forth.
And so I vowed I was never
going to sit in the back again.
But they wouldn't let me
sit up front because I
wasn't in the in crowd.
There was this whole
section of people
who'd been with him in
India and various things.
So I pointed myself.
The next day, I got up
really early went there.
And I started pretending
like I was the usher--
and who could go up
front and who could not.
And I had a usher's seat, and I
would sit in the usher's seat.
So I'd be right in the front.
And then so I got to hang
around him a lot that way,
appointing myself as the usher.
Then what would happen is
that he went to West Coast
to do a course.
And nobody from the
East Coast could
go because it was sold out--
1,000 people at
Humboldt University.
Big hippie thing--
Maharishi was there.
Great lectures-- all excitement
in the new hippie age.
And I just didn't listen to him.
They wouldn't let me in.
I just went.
I hitchhiked across the country.
I hitchhiked over there--
had hardly any money.
And this was really funny.
I couldn't get in.
They wouldn't register me.
You're not allowed.
You were at the other course.
So I was little.
So the Maharishi would
come in the back door
with his entourage of rich
and famous and VIP people.
And he'd come by.
I'd sneak in and go
right up behind him
because he was a little guy.
And I'd stand right behind him
and walk through every time,
pretending like I
was one of the VIPs.
I did this every
day for a month.
[LAUGHTER]
So then he did his--
he did his only teacher
training program in America.
It was a three-month
in-residence course here
at Estes Park, in Colorado.
>>LISA: Oh, wow.
>>GRAY: So again,
I applied for that.
And they wouldn't accept
me because I was too young.
You had to be in your
20s, and I was 17 or 18.
And so I went anyway.
I said but I'm here.
And they said, well, you
can't become a teacher.
I said you'll see.
And so I basically would
share and shine, show up,
and share my experiences.
And eventually, they
said I couldn't.
And I went to him, and
I said I want to do it.
And he said OK.
And it was always me pushing.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: I always pushed.
You know?
And then he knew me.
>>LISA: You had goals though.
>>GRAY: I had goals.
I had motivation.
I was just like I'm
going to get in there.
I just leaned in.
And I ended up taking
every course he ever
taught to the public, during
the next three or four years.
And then he only gave
talks to his people,
and I started teaching
those courses as well,
as teacher training programs.
But during that time, we'd have
these rounding courses where
you'd meditate six hours a day.
You'd meditate awhile.
Do some yoga.
Then meditate awhile.
>>LISA: Guided meditation?
>>GRAY: No, you'd
be in your rooms,
all separately, doing this.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>GRAY: Called it rounding.
You'd do breathing exercise.
First you'd do yoga postures,
then breathing exercise, then
meditate 30 minutes.
Then yoga postures,
breathing exercise, and then
meditate 30 minutes.
>>LISA: Those are the rounds?
>>GRAY: And you do rounding,
maybe five, six rounds a day.
Well, after a while, I
started doing way more.
And I started sharing a lot.
And I had stellar experiences.
And then I got to be
his personal assistant.
His personal assistant got
sick, and his other assistant
go and got sick.
And the other one got
kicked out for bad behavior.
So we had no assistants.
So there were nine VIP guys.
These were all rich people.
Because he had people around him
who could afford it and travel
with him and all this.
And I couldn't.
But so then nine were there.
And now, they were
all waiting in line
to be picked as the
new personal assistant.
So I went and sat in the line.
And they said no, you can't
be here-- you're not a VIP.
So I was like really depressed.
I went to my room.
I cried.
[INAUDIBLE]
The next morning, I just
happened to get up early.
And I said, well, I'll
just get up before them.
So I went up, and I went
and sat in the chair,
waiting for them to come up.
And what Maharishi
would say to people--
which is when he
was ready, he had
people go away because everybody
wanted to be around him.
He'd say, good to go and rest.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>GRAY: Good to go and rest.
So I was sitting
there in the morning,
and the next VIP guy came up.
And he says, what
are you doing here?
I said, I'm the new assistant.
And he said, what do you mean?
And I said, yeah, I'm
the new assistant,
and it's good to go and rest.
>>LISA: [LAUGHS]
>>GRAY: And so everybody
who came in, I said it's
good to go and rest.
It's good to go and rest.
I didn't lie.
I just said it's
good to go and rest.
I kicked everybody off
the floor for two days.
So Maharishi was forced
to push his little button,
and I would come in, and I would
come in to take over the job.
So I never wanted to ask because
I was afraid of being rejected.
You're too young.
[CHUCKLES] So anyway--
>>LISA: Just had a will.
>>GRAY: I just had a will.
And then he went on a trip, a
tour of America, at that time.
I had hardly any money.
I had $150.
But at that time, there
was a tour from Europe,
around America, for $121.
So I spent almost
all of my money
on this ticket, Tour America,
for $120, around in a circle.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>GRAY: As long as you're in a
circle, going back to Europe,
things were cheap then.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: And he was
touring America.
So I bought the ticket.
And I'm sitting here
as his assistant,
and people are saying,
oh, Maharishi I'd
like to come with you.
He'd say best to stay.
Best to stay.
He didn't want to travel
with all these people.
It was a headache.
So anyway, so nobody was
there to travel with them.
And if I had asked, he
would have said best
to stay because he had
people on the other end that
would take care of him.
>>LISA: You knew not to ask.
[LAUGHS]
>>GRAY: So I didn't ask.
I just bought the ticket.
[CHUCKLES] So we
got on the airplane.
I'm sitting next to
him on the plane.
He just laughed at me.
He just said this
kid has got this far.
[LAUGHS]
>>LISA: He recognized you.
>>GRAY: He probably
saw himself in me
because he was his guru's
personal assistant and so,
for him.
>>LISA: Oh, wonderful.
>>GRAY: Anyway, so I went to
that and persisted with him.
We were so sweet together.
He was like a father to me.
And also when he would
teach his meditation courses
on these rounding
courses, I just
happened to be
really good at it.
And I'm very dedicated to it.
So there's lots of
stories about that.
And--
>>LISA: The stories,
I'm sure, could go on--
>>GRAY: Just go on and
on and on about it.
>>LISA: --forever.
>>GRAY: But I learned,
really, through meditation,
how to have altered
higher consciousness.
And I probably would've still
been there, but at nine years,
I had brought-- my
brother was bipolar.
And a meditation-- I
brought him to Switzerland,
where we were at that time.
And it just didn't help him.
And he said, I just
gotta go back, John.
I said, OK, OK.
But I just felt my
brother's suffering.
And here I am, in the glory
of my life, and you know--
>>LISA: You had already
written your books and--
>>GRAY: No, no.
No books-- this is
all just meditation.
I'm on the posters with him.
I mean, they had my brain--
they had this flying thing,
where you're hopping around, and
they have my picture doing it.
And my brain chemical,
my brainwaves
as a display in 3,600 cities.
You know, Maharishi's
picture, then here I am.
So I was a well-known person in
the TM movement at that time.
>>LISA: Oh.
Wow, very fortunate.
Or, as you could say, destiny.
>>GRAY: It definitely destiny.
This was destiny.
>>LISA: Definitely.
>>GRAY: And actually, my
last conversation with him, I
was asking about what
my future would be.
And he says in 10
years, you will own
this movement is what he said.
But that was my last
conversation with him
because my brother was sick.
And I couldn't be in
this glorious place
when my brother's sick and
meditation didn't help.
So I felt in my heart I just had
to go find an answer for him.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>GRAY: And I flew out to
California to study psychology,
thinking that could
help my brother.
And trying to help my brother
launched my whole career
because studying
psychology, I then started
having a counseling practice
and realized that there's
a better way to counsel people.
And that was by understanding
where people come
from without right or wrong.
>>LISA: The differences
without judgement.
>>GRAY: Yeah, the
differences came forth.
And meditation gave me
the ability to be curious,
rather than to
immediately judge,
and to study, rather
than to give advice.
>>LISA: To observe.
>>GRAY: To observe
and feel empathy.
And it prepared me for that.
And then I could be this great
counselor and great husband
and father of my children.
Meditation is a
foundation where you
can find unconditional love.
If you're not full
within yourself,
you're always looking
to be filled up.
And if you're looking
to be filled up,
you look to control
when you're empty.
And so you give up
control, and you
have this openness when you're
already fulfilled inside.
And that's what meditation
can give people.
>>LISA: It also has
probably helped you
with the amount of
grief that you have
experienced in your lifetime.
You've had several very close
people to you pass away.
>>GRAY: Oh, devastating.
You know, I have this charmed
life, but at the same time,
I have these big devastations.
I could go on, but
just very shortly,
my little brother, Jimmy, who
I actually came to America
to help--
I couldn't help him, and he
ended up committing suicide.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>GRAY: So that was a
really hard thing on me.
And then there was my father.
On my honeymoon with
Bonnie, my wife,
got a call that he'd been found
dead in the trunk of his car.
He had picked up a hitchhiker
and ended up dead in his car
by the side of the road.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>GRAY: And here's the
irony of the magic of life.
My last conversation-- I had
brought Bonnie to meet my dad,
and he gives her a tour
of Houston, where I lived.
And I said to my dad--
I said, now, dad, I
want to give you advice.
Now I'm grown up, and
I can give you advice.
And he said, oh,
what's that John?
I said, it's not safe
to pick up hitchhikers.
He was a very generous man.
The tour we were on was of
the poor section of Houston,
where he had started the
clubs teaching them sports.
He bought all the sports
equipment and the baseball
equipment, and started all that.
So this is what he was so
proud of because he was
helping all these poor people.
And then, suddenly,
I say, but, dad,
you can't pick up hitchhikers.
And he said, John, some
men, when they retire,
they go on safari.
For me, I pick up hitchhikers.
>>LISA: Ooh.
>>GRAY: He would help people.
Give them money.
Drive them places.
And then a week later, I'm
on the honeymoon with Bonnie.
And I hear the call,
and he's found.
And that was a big
turning point for me.
And when I look at my
tragedies, they always
have a gift in them.
>>LISA: Wow.
You found a gift in that.
>>GRAY: Found the gift in that.
I found the gift in Jimmy
because that helped open me up
to the whole thing
of psychology.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: And my whole destiny
came through that act
of wanting to help him.
My dad-- I got into the trunk.
My family's all standing
around, but I just
felt like I had to relive
what he went through.
It was terrifying, the thought
of being left in a trunk.
Because he wasn't damaged.
He was just put in the trunk.
>>LISA: You just wanted
to know, didn't you?
>>GRAY: I wanted to know.
I wanted to connect with my dad.
And I saw where he had
taken a screwdriver
and banged for help,
asking for help.
And three times, people
called the police,
and the police didn't come.
Again, that's the
lack of communication.
Until my mother called,
the fourth call,
and they said, yeah,
that car's been reported.
We'll go check it out.
Because he wasn't killed.
He died in the trunk
from heat asphyxiation.
But he was crying
out, making noises.
And the next thing he did is
he unscrewed the back light.
And so you pull it in.
Now, this is a Mercedes.
Back then, they didn't have
a release to open the trunk.
So he was trapped.
And so when I'm in the
trunk, I pull this back,
and just without thinking,
I put my hand out.
And as I'm pulling my
hand back, my brother
on the outside of
the trunk says,
John, see if you can reach
around to the button.
And I reached around, pushed the
button, and opened the trunk.
And that's a tragedy.
>>LISA: That easy.
>>GRAY: That's the tragedy of it
is that the solution was there,
but he just didn't
think about it
because when you're in the box,
you're only trying to get out.
You're not thinking from
the other point of view.
>>LISA: That is
such a huge lesson.
>>GRAY: It was a
huge lesson for me.
And that's the birth
of "Men Are from Mars,
Women Are from Venus" is that
whenever there's a problem,
look at it from the other
person's point of view.
>>LISA: Really.
>>GRAY: We should always
know that when there's
a miscommunication, we're
looking at our point of view
as opposed to trying to look at
it from the other point of view
and blend them together.
And that was an inspiration
for me in my life.
>>LISA: Well, we
can thank your dad.
>>GRAY: Yeah, thank my dad.
And he's always with
me because of that.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: Then, my sister--
younger sister-- died
of early Alzheimer's.
So that was awful.
>>LISA: Oh, my goodness.
>>GRAY: Awful what they--
they drug them up, and they
put them in these
hospitals to collect money.
And it just-- it was horrible.
Then there's my mother.
She died of an accident.
She had asked them to come and
repair the heater at her house
because it was
putting off gassing.
And they didn't come, and
then she died from poison.
>>LISA: Carbon monoxide.
>>GRAY: Carbon
monoxide poisoning.
>>LISA: So these are not
old-age-related deaths.
These are tragedies.
>>GRAY: These are traumas.
Yeah, these are tragedies.
>>LISA: Each one of them.
And it is amazing that you
are able to sit and really
teach about love.
It's incredible.
>>GRAY: Yeah, well, I think
here's a thought for everyone
is that we all come into this
world with destinies, but we--
it's like trying to fly
from LA to New York.
A plane is actually
never on track.
It's always deviating.
It's self-correcting.
The wind blows it this way--
the computer self corrects.
It's never really
going straight.
So our life, to be in
tune, tune into our flow,
we're always going
to be off balance.
And it's only by being off
balance and coming back
into balance that we
can find the flow again.
>>LISA: Isn't that the truth.
>>GRAY: Because no one's
ever going to be perfect.
So mistakes and
tragedies and losses--
they all help us to
come back to more,
even when we make mistakes.
Because when my brother
committed suicide,
I felt so much
guilt for not being
able to help him and be a better
brother when I was growing up.
Not like I was a bad brother,
but you just look at everything
you wish you could
have done differently.
>>LISA: Yes.
It's important to
talk about that
because not everybody finds the
reason in the death of a loved
one, like you have.
>>GRAY: Yeah, and so what I
looked at is I felt my guilt,
and I used that to
become a better person.
See, that's what
guilt can do for you.
When you feel the guilt,
you let it go because you're
going to learn from it.
Everybody makes
mistakes, but you
grow if you take on
your guilt, and you let
it go with self forgiveness.
And that helps us to adjust.
Our heart opens and says
I want to be better.
And with Jimmy,
that was my pledge.
I look back on his
childhood, and I saw
how he always looked up to me.
And I was this little guy.
But who looked up to him?
So I was always sort
of thinking about me
and wasn't always
pumping him up.
So I said to myself
when he died,
one of the places looking,
is I pledge to myself,
when somebody is there
for me, I'm always
going to be there for them.
I won't forget them.
And that was a big thing for me.
Then--
>>LISA: A beautiful way to
live your life, by the way.
Yes.
>>GRAY: Yeah, yeah.
Be grateful.
And so when I wrote
my first book--
before "Men Are from Mars" was
"Men, Women and Relationships."
And no publisher wanted me.
And a friend of
mine had a friend
with a small distribution house.
And they took that
book, and they sold
50,000 copies, which is huge.
And it's like, how
did they do it?
So suddenly, an agent found
me and sent-- because no agent
wanted me at the time.
I wasn't any famous
person or whatever.
And they said, I can sell
your book to New York.
And Bonnie and I
were so excited.
Oh, my god.
This book, "Men, Women
and Relationships"--
New York's going to buy.
In those days, New
York was everything.
If you have a New
York publisher,
you just didn't get in stores.
So we're so excited, and I
called up the publishers.
Group West is what
they were called.
I said, good news--
New York's going to buy my book.
And they said, yes, good
news for you, but not for us.
>>LISA: Oh, yes.
>>GRAY: Because they said, every
time we have a successful book,
they take it away.
We don't get to build it.
And he says, will you at
least let us talk to you
and show you that
we think we can
do a great job with your book.
I said yes.
And I had to at least do that.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: Everybody I talked
to said, this is your dream.
Go with New York.
This is your dream.
My agent-- they're
ready to buy your book.
>>LISA: And then you had these
people that started with you.
>>GRAY: So I go to the meeting.
And there I am in the
meeting, and they're
telling me what they can do.
And I know it's
not as much as what
New York could do for my book.
But then the president
of the company was there.
He says, so will you
trust us and let us do it?
And when he did it, it was
the voice of my brother Jimmy.
I felt the spirit of
Jimmy right there.
And these were the
people who had helped me
when nobody else would.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>GRAY: And so I was not
about to take this book away
from them.
So he said, will you
give us the book?
And I said yes.
And my wife was shocked.
My agent was shocked.
Because my heart
was open-- pure.
That was the spirit
talking through me.
This is my lesson.
And Jimmy was there.
So I remember then
getting in the elevator,
and my agent said to me,
what are you going to do?
What are you going to do?
You know we can sell that book.
And I said, I'll
write another one.
You can write another one?
I said, I can write it better.
And in three months,
I had finished it.
Every day, I worked--
I took my kids to school.
I babysitted Lauren.
I wrote for six hours.
Every week, wrote a chapter--
12 chapters.
It was done.
It was the easiest
book I've ever
written because it came
right from that place
in my heart, which is
do the right thing,
and the universe supports you.
>>LISA: And that
was "Mars, Venus."
>>GRAY: And that's "Men Are from
Mars, Women Are from Venus."
So what a beautiful thing.
Again, that's growing
from learning a lesson
from something and
letting your heart grow
through these mishaps to
help us become better.
>>LISA: But you were
operating your life
not from a place of survival.
And these years of
meditation and learning
how to work with the
universe and the higher good
for yourself, I think
would have contributed
to making decisions like that.
>>GRAY: Oh, well,
everything-- you see, we all
have the prefrontal
cortex, the monkey brain,
and the instinctive brain.
All of our emotional, negative
emotions, fears, doubts,
angers, frustrations,
hesitate-- that's all monkey
brain talking.
And when you learn
through meditation
to strengthen the
prefrontal cortex,
then you connect to the big
boss, which is your spirit.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>GRAY: And spirit-- even
now, as my wife has passed--
and she died of cancer.
And it was tragic.
It's just so beautiful, and then
suddenly, within a few months,
it was gone.
>>LISA: Yes
>>GRAY: And she's
still in my heart.
But such a tragedy, and
I'm grieving even now.
I'm going through months and
months of the grieving process.
>>LISA: Rightfully so.
>>GRAY: There's still always
this little star up there
in my higher self that says
you're going to get through it.
Everything's going to be OK.
You're going to grow from this.
You're going to be a
better man from this.
And of course, I already
am a better person
from growing because your
mind goes back, and it says,
oh, I wish I had done this.
I wish I had done that.
That's what guilt
can do-- reflection.
>>LISA: Those are the lessons.
>>GRAY: As long
as you can let it
go is realizing you have to
come from the unconditional love
for yourself and others,
which meditation can give you.
Because through
meditation, you can
connect with the life stream.
You connect with the spirit.
And in the spirit world,
there's no good, no bads.
It's all unconditional.
>>LISA: So through these
techniques and this experience,
for nine years of meditation
and really working
with these tools, you can take
your experience with Bonnie
and say, OK, I did that, and
maybe I feel badly about that,
but I'll do better next time.
And you don't give
yourself judgment or shame
or get stuck in that place.
>>GRAY: It's not getting stuck.
I feel it.
I feel guilty.
I should have done this.
I should have-- basically,
I should have saved her.
That's the emotional side of it.
I failed her.
I saved her.
And of course, in the end, she
said, John, you're my hero.
You did everything.
It was so sweet.
>>LISA: You did.
You did.
>>GRAY: But what you have to do
is feelings have to come forth.
The feelings come forth.
And if you have meditation, you
observe them, and they flow.
And as feelings, or dirty
feelings or negative feelings--
they just flow and become pure.
They clean themselves
if you can feel it,
and you learn to let go.
Meditation helps you
to let go and let
yourself get into the flow.
So what I saw in
my own experience
of being a meditator--
>>LISA: Could I ask you really
quick about the grief process?
>>GRAY: Yes.
>>LISA: Because you really
are an expert in grieving.
>>GRAY: Yeah, I've written
several books on it.
Yeah.
>>LISA: You have.
And through the
grieving process,
you are letting
the feelings come,
and then allowing them
to go like a river.
You're still working.
You're still doing your
mission, your passion.
>>GRAY: Yes.
>>LISA: But you are experiencing
the grieving process as well.
You did a couple of months
where you did nothing.
>>GRAY: Right, right.
>>LISA: A good six months.
>>GRAY: I just wandered
around the house, wailing.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
>>GRAY: But see, for me, each
time, it comes back to love.
It's the recognition that I only
miss her because I love her.
I only feel guilty
because I love her.
And what heals the heart
is coming back to feeling
I love her.
Because there's the feeling
of I don't have you.
>>LISA: Of course.
>>GRAY: There's
the pain of that.
>>LISA: I want you.
>>GRAY: And then I miss you.
I want you.
I need you.
And for me, every little
thing that she did for me,
I'm doing for myself now.
So it will bring up grief.
And then it will bring
up the love of gratitude
that she did that for me.
Just the other day,
the most recent one
was I was rushing home from the
airport, and I asked myself,
why am I rushing?
And I'm rushing to
get home to see her.
It was just like--
and she's not there.
So again, it brings
up the feelings.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: And I'll be
doing my laundry,
and she used to do my laundry.
So I'm doing the laundry, and
in the beginning, it was like,
she did this for me.
I didn't even thank her for it.
You know?
It would be such
sweetness when you see all
the things your partner does.
And now, part of
the healing process
is when I'm doing my
laundry, she's inside of me.
I'm folding my T-shirts
the way she did,
and so I'm feeling
the comfort of her
still, remembering the love.
>>LISA: But what a great
lesson to those of us who do
take our relationships
for granted.
>>GRAY: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>LISA: And to really be
grateful for that moment.
Yes.
>>GRAY: Yeah, and
to me, I just--
>>LISA: For all of the moments.
>>GRAY: I miss so much that
first thing in the morning--
she was a morning person.
I'm not.
So--
>>LISA: Me neither.
>>GRAY: I need to
meditate awhile.
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah.
But every morning, I'd
get up, and she would
be in her little nightgown.
And she'd greet me a big
smile and her blue eyes.
And I just said
good morning, honey.
It's like she had no
problem in the world.
She could come from that
pure feminine energy.
Problems would come later
with her, [CHUCKLES]
but she would start fresh.
And what a gift that was to me.
>>LISA: Every day.
>>GRAY: Because all
any man ever wants
is to see his partner happy.
And every woman wants
her husband to be happy.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: So just to know
that that hug was such a--
would just anchor.
And so every day, I wake up and
I imagine giving her that hug.
>>LISA: And you feel
these feelings of grief,
and you go through this,
but yet, at the same time,
you have this base, this
strong base that you've learned
through decades of meditation.
>>GRAY: Yeah.
Yeah, it gives you the anchor
to come back to what is true.
See, part of the pain
of losing someone
is I'll never love again because
no one will ever replace her,
so I'll never love again.
But that's not true.
I will love again.
So the inner-self
knows what is true.
It's like a light
that shines on it.
But you shine on the
little monkey brain,
going through all the
attachments and letting go.
It's painful to let go.
The brain has to
reorganize itself,
from I depend on you
for this, to depend
on others for this or this.
It's a shift that takes
time, but many people never
make the shift fully.
They just push everything
down, avoiding it.
So you walk through
my house-- you'll
see all the pictures are there.
I'm still doing the
lighting the candle,
putting the flowers in
front of her picture.
I've got the computer
always showing pictures.
Because you have to see it and
feel it and let the feelings
come up.
And they always come in a wave.
You just come back to love.
And you have to be open to all
kinds of feelings, not just
sadness.
You have to get in
touch with fear,
the fear of the insecurity.
Well, who will I find?
Will I be loved again?
They're deep, deep-seated
fears, insecurities
that often come from childhood.
And then there's the anger.
Anger is always there.
And I think, for me, I was so
angry with God, and angry--
all these song lyrics
started coming into me.
I want to turn back time.
I want to rip open the
fabric of time and go back.
I just want to go back.
I want to go back.
Don't take her away from me.
And then you go through the
sadness again and the fears.
And then it comes back to love.
You know, it all comes
back to love and gratitude.
Gratitude is a big one--
the time I had with her
and all that she's done for me.
>>LISA: Yes.
I'm thinking of the
most unimaginable, which
is the death of a
child, and there's
no justification for any death.
>>GRAY: No.
No.
>>LISA: And all
that you're saying,
really, is going through
the fabric of all of it
and coming back to love.
Yes, the anger.
Yes, the grief.
Yes, the denial.
Yes, the bargaining.
Yes, all the accepting.
>>GRAY: And the
guilt. And the guilt.
>>LISA: And the guilt.
>>GRAY: And let it be whatever
your feelings are saying.
But if they're painful,
they're not true,
meaning they're not facts.
The way your soul communicates
to you that you're thinking
needs to be adjusted--
it's limited--
is by giving you pain
for having that thought.
So the pain I feel with
Bonnie is that I can't ever
love her again.
I can never receive
her love again.
And that's a lie.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>GRAY: I can always love her.
>>LISA: Of course.
>>GRAY: She's around
me all the time.
I get to talk about her.
I get to remember her.
>>LISA: And the memories
of her and all of that.
>>GRAY: It's being
able to feel the love.
And also to the deep,
deep part of the self,
if I don't have her,
who will love me?
Well, other people will love me.
But I have to eventually
make that adjustment
to experience other people
loving me so my mind can let
go of just depending on her.
Because she's my soul mate.
There was nobody
like her in my life.
Nobody.
And no one ever will be.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: But I will have people
to love and there'll be love,
but it won't be--
>>LISA: And you will be loved--
>>GRAY: --what she gave.
And I think a sexual
relationship is so hard
because you connect so deeply
in sex, if you have great sex.
We had great sex.
To me, the moment of great sex
is when you're coming together,
and you feel so
100%, I am yours--
you are mine.
Pure attachment-- you are mine.
I am yours.
We are together forever.
And that's what connection is.
And then suddenly, whoa,
we're not together.
You know, that's
that whole truth.
But as souls, we are
together forever.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>GRAY: But when we see
in the physical plane,
there's a rip,
that's what causes
the pain is the belief that
we'll never be together again.
As one card said, it's
only a matter of time,
and I'll see you again.
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes.
>>GRAY: It's only
a matter of time.
>>LISA: And through your
experience of meditation,
you know how to feel and
transcend dimensions,
if you will, to be able
to feel her essence again.
I personally
believe that the way
we keep our departed, or
transitioned loved ones,
close to us is through
the memory of them.
And the more people
that remember them,
it keeps their
consciousness closer to us.
>>GRAY: Oh, this is the
biggest surprise for me,
in this whole process.
What you just said is the
memory of other people,
about her, holds her
to me more as well.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: All of her friends
have written me little notes.
And one of my friends
is even making a book,
talking to everybody
that knew Bonnie,
and telling a story about her
because it brings her more,
the more experience other
people's perception of her.
Oh, such a sweet
thing and opportunity
to hear all of that.
>>LISA: Also a great gift to do
to someone who is still alive
and to honor them while
they're alive as well.
Why do we have to wait
until someone transitions?
>>GRAY: Well, we do
that with birthdays.
Every time somebody
has a birthday.
>>LISA: We do.
>>GRAY: Now let's
all take an hour.
And everybody there--
and a reason I
love you is-- and tell a
story about the person,
or a quality or what.
>>LISA: Great.
>>GRAY: And we should be
celebrated all the time,
but particularly when
they pass physically.
>>LISA: So the
resonance, the technique
that you're talking about is
how to-- explain this to us.
>>GRAY: OK, whenever-- and
so a few concepts first.
One is meditation has
been difficult for women
and sometimes boring for
men because the techniques
that we're learning often
were taught 2,000 years ago,
6,000 years ago.
>>LISA: Different time.
>>GRAY: A different
time, when people
didn't have access to spirit.
But what I have worked
with, in Tibet and in India,
various masters,
called miracle workers,
whatever-- they have a
secret knowledge that
wasn't taught to the public.
And the reason it wasn't
taught to the public
is because people
couldn't do it.
It'd be like teaching
geometry or algebra to someone
who needs to learn addition.
And what they all do is
they learn the access points
to bring in the divine energy,
to transmute it, to send it,
to do all kinds of things with
it, is through the fingertips.
So you'll see when
Jesus, for example,
is portrayed as doing healing,
he'll bless people like this.
So what is going on
with his fingers?
Well, this pulls energy down.
This pulls Mother
Earth energy up.
Bring those two worlds together,
and you project the energy
through the thumb.
So that's what they're doing.
But they don't teach that.
Why don't they teach it?
Because people couldn't feel it.
But we're having
dinner the other night.
All I have to do is
just put my hand up.
Put your hand out.
And start, all the sudden--
anybody watching, if you just
put your hand up in the air
right now.
Just think about fingertips.
Think about the
divine spirit come,
Mother Earth come
up from the earth,
and you start to feel
energy in your fingers.
>>LISA: It's an enormous
amount of heat that--
>>GRAY: Just starts
getting generated.
We have this
ability, like there's
all this money in
our bank account,
and we didn't know
we had checks for it.
And where it came from is the
same thing in all my books
on relationship.
How relationships
have changed is now,
both because we
have more connection
with the divine,
higher consciousness,
more connectivity, we are
free to go to our female side
or our male side.
Because spirit is
both male and female.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: Physical body is male.
Physical body for
a woman is female.
But on the physical plane,
we have these differences.
But on the spiritual plane,
both energies are available.
So this meditation is one
which is for men and women
because accesses both
your male and female side.
>>LISA: It makes sense
because as you said,
the public wasn't taught this
several thousand years ago
because of the density of
the population at the time,
so close to survival and
so newly out of survival.
Now we are more of
an evolved species,
several thousand years later.
And we have the freedom to
connect with the divine.
>>GRAY: And we have
the freedom to have
both feminine and
masculine at the same time.
That's the ecstasy.
That's the flow.
That's the genius.
That's the Dao.
It's when you have both
masculine and feminine,
united together.
And in sex, that's an orgasm.
It's unfortunately
temporary for people.
>>LISA: But it's also inclusion.
That's inclusion.
>>GRAY: Oh, it's
completely oneness there.
So this meditation is you
become aware of your fingertips.
That's the first thing, just
to be aware of your fingertips.
And then you set your intention.
Now, I'm going to give
you the phrase that I use.
And you can make your own, but
I've used it over and over.
Many people-- it seems
to be really helpful.
So you have a word
for higher power.
We're going to
use divine spirit.
Sometimes, if you
say God, some people
have buttons that get pushed.
But Divine Spirit,
most people can handle.
And another word that most
people can handle is angels.
>>LISA: OK.
>>GRAY: Angels are the
messengers of Heaven,
the energy flows, the vortexes
that come in and whatever.
But they're poetic.
So we're going to
say Divine Spirit,
we open our hearts to you.
So that's an intention.
Divine spirit, we
open our hearts.
That means we're going
to feel your presence.
Because in this
meditation, you're
going to feel the energy in your
fingertips, then your palms,
and it may go in other
parts of your body.
But see, if you're
feeling, you're flowing.
And when you're
flowing, you're focused.
So you're doing the yang
energy is focus, concentration.
But you're effortlessly flowing.
So you're bringing the male
and the female together.
Now, in "Yoga Sutras," that's
called Darrena and Dion.
When you can do both
at the same time,
advanced meditators
think I went to somatic,
which is something that
everybody's thought,
one day I'll have somatic.
Well, you're going to
have somatic right now.
Anybody can do this so easily.
Because we have access to
our male and female side,
we can do both at the same time.
And beautifully,
when you do this,
it also helps you balance
your own energies in life.
Because women are often,
when they're overwhelmed,
they're on their male side.
When men are passive,
are irritable,
grumpy, they're too far
on their emotional side.
>>LISA: So you're
giving your energy away.
This gives you and
restores your energy.
>>GRAY: This
restores the balance.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: And so how to
restore the balance--
so there's a
phenomena in nature.
One is fingertips.
That's the turn-on
switch because, see,
think about how do I touch you.
Fingertips.
So if you want to touch, feel--
>>LISA: Mm-hmm, anything.
>>GRAY: --spirit--
it's fingertips
is the turn-on switch.
And eventually, you
learn to do your toes,
and then your whole
body can resonate.
But the fingertips is
the turn-on switch.
So I just go fingertips-- boom.
The energies are flowing.
So we know in acupuncture,
there are these energy
channels in the body.
And when people
are sick, there's
always a block in those
energies somewhere.
And what they do is
they put a needle in
to cause painful
sensation because when
you have painful sensation,
energy flows there.
>>LISA: And breaks up the block.
>>GRAY: And energy flows
and breaks the block.
So in acupuncture, they press
a point where you feel pain.
When you feel pain,
energy is released.
That's the energy
being released.
So like yelling and
screaming-- people feel better,
but they don't end
up healing anything.
They just release
the blocked energy.
When you eat a lot of sugar,
you release the energy.
When you take
drugs, you release.
People feel uncomfortable--
they go and eat a desert,
or they go and they take drugs.
Or they do things to lose their
energy because it's blocked.
>>LISA: It's too stuck.
>>GRAY: That's what tension
is is energy gets blocked.
And what is that energy?
It's divine energy
that becomes blocked.
So that's, on the
surface, it's tension.
But if you go a little deeper,
it's negative emotions.
All negative emotions are
divine energy, love energy,
positive desire, soul
desire, good desire to serve,
to be of love, to
love and be loved.
That energy's flowing, and
it's something we do to stop.
>>LISA: It gets stuck.
>>GRAY: It gets stuck.
>>LISA: Gotcha.
>>GRAY: So as soon as there's
a block, and energy's flowing,
now that tension builds, and
that's a negative emotion.
So part of this technique--
>>LISA: I'm sorry, that
makes perfect sense.
If you're going in a direction
with a passion or something
that you really thought
was going to work out,
and it all of a sudden
gets stuck or jolted
or ripped away
from you, it does--
it sticks the energy.
It freezes it right where it
was in the motion of love.
Mm-hmm.
>>GRAY: So in the Daoist
philosophy in China,
they call that blocked energy,
stuck energy, stale energy.
In therapy, we have people
talk about their emotions,
and they feel better.
What is that?
It's because if you can express
emotion, and something else--
if somebody else can feel it
with you so you're not alone
in it--
a bigger healing happens.
Just being in touch
with your feelings
is good to let them go.
But if there's somebody
listening to you,
it's easier to let it go
because there's a permission.
>>LISA: Permission.
>>GRAY: There's an empathy.
>>LISA: Connection.
>>GRAY: There's a love
that says I understand.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: So understanding
and empathy help release it.
So in this meditation, we're
going to use our fingertips.
We're going to
call in the spirit.
Now, the spirit is
always here, right?
But we're going to bring
our awareness to it.
That's all it is.
It's stating, out
loud, our intention.
So what phrase--
it's very simple.
It's Divine Spirit, my
heart is open to you.
If we're doing it
together, it would
be our hearts are open to you.
Come-- now when you say come,
you feel it right there.
>>LISA: Yes, I do.
>>GRAY: It's just there.
So it's just Divine Spirit,
our hearts are open to you.
It could also be, if you
want, I open my heart to you.
Come.
And then suddenly,
if you just have
the tension on your fingertips,
you get goose bumps.
It just suddenly--
>>LISA: That's amazing.
>>GRAY: --starts to increase.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: It's just as they come.
Now, that's three steps--
1, 2, 3.
Next step, I need your help.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: So always, if you want
help, your guides are there.
The angels are there.
The universe is there.
>>LISA: And rarely
do we ask for it.
>>GRAY: And we
don't ask for help.
Because it's good to do--
you know, a child needs help.
At a certain point, you
want to do it yourself.
So the universe says,
OK, develop yourself,
but when you need
help, I'm here.
So it will come to help us
so that now we can co-create.
So that's the idea is
co-creating with nature.
I need your help.
I'm not going to do this alone.
I need your help because I'm
going beyond where I am now.
I'm in a rut.
I'm in my own place.
I want to go beyond,
so I need your help.
>>LISA: But it's
not, do it for me.
>>GRAY: No, it's not do for me.
>>LISA: Gotcha.
There's a difference.
>>GRAY: Great Spirit, come.
My heart is open--
>>LISA: Is open.
>>GRAY: --to you.
Come.
I need your help.
>>LISA: I need your help.
>>GRAY: And then what
help do you need?
So today, the help we need, you
just have to set the intention.
The energy will do it.
It will flow just like your arm.
If I say to my arm,
up, it will do this.
If I cannot feel the
arm, it won't respond.
You have to feel the
energy of the universe,
the intelligent energy
of the universe,
and it will respond
to your intention.
And you have to
know how to do this.
And certain order to
it can help a lot.
Great Spirit, or Divine Spirit,
our hearts are open to you.
>>LISA: Our hearts are open.
>>GRAY: Come.
I need your help.
>>LISA: I need your help.
>>GRAY: And that's where
you get vulnerable.
I need your help.
And right now, the help
we're going to ask for
is to open the
channels for everybody,
so they'll be able to meditate
without me helping them.
>>LISA: Great.
>>GRAY: Is open the channels--
so the phrasing we're going
to use that is heal my body.
>>LISA: OK.
>>GRAY: Healing-- healing
is opening the channels.
That's what it means.
Heal my body.
If you're emotionally
stuck or negativity,
you go, heal my heart.
Heal my heart.
>>LISA: Or if you have pain.
>>GRAY: If you have pain, it's
heal my body or heal my pain.
You could say just heal
my body is good enough,
or heal my heart.
And if you're really discouraged
in life, like beaten down,
this is my sweetest one.
Heal my spirit.
Because so many times,
we are so inspired,
and things don't happen the
way we want-- we just crash.
I remember one time, I
was a fraud of $3 million.
And I just felt--
it was tricked.
I was tricked.
It was all professionally
done fraud.
I just felt like, what
happened to my golden thumb?
Everything happens for me.
How could that be?
And my spirit crashed.
And I just had to meditate, to
come back to heal my spirit,
to believe again.
The universe is here to serve
and support us all the time.
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes.
>>GRAY: That is the truth.
And so we have to
keep coming back
to being able to understand
that and know that there
was a lesson I had to learn.
And it helped my
growth from the lesson
I learned from that, which
is not all people are
like me and trustworthy.
[CHUCKLES] You know?
You just figure, I would
never do that to somebody.
>>LISA: That's a huge lesson.
>>GRAY: A lot of
spiritual people,
you have to get
that not everybody's
got the same ethics as you.
>>LISA: Yes, I've
learned that one too.
That's a tough one.
>>GRAY: Yeah, that's a big one.
>>LISA: Yes, it is.
>>GRAY: So we go through, Divine
Spirit-- now, for some people,
it can be, dear God.
Now, if throughout your
life, you're a Christian,
and you pray to
Jesus, then that's
better because you
already have a connection.
It's Jesus, my heart
is open to you.
Please come.
I need your help.
Or if you're healing.
If you need healing for
a family or whatever,
and you believe in Christianity,
you'd say, oh, Mother Mary,
my heart is open to you.
Please come.
I need your help.
Heal my child.
Bless this person.
Give her confidence.
Give her hope.
Or it could be, heal
my body to whoever
you have an affinity
towards, whatever deity,
spirit, whatever, or just--
>>LISA: This so
beautifully simple.
>>GRAY: So beautifully simple.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: Now, here's
the next step of it--
I need your help.
So you go, and you
hear a lot of people
who have had great,
miraculous transformations.
They always had a huge
amount of pain before.
>>LISA: True.
>>GRAY: They have these stories.
They went through
all this stuff.
That means they're in
touch with their pain.
Their pain is the places
where light needs to go.
And light can't move
into you until you first
feel whatever pains you have.
And one of the challenges
for new-age folks
is we just want to live up
here and not feel our pain,
and then we wonder
where the passion went.
I wonder why I'm kind of
bored and stuck in my life.
We have to also--
part of the spiritual journey is
going into the darkness, which
is often called the dark
night of the soul, which
is, for me, when I was a big
meditator for all those years,
I was just rising
above, rising above.
But came out into the world--
I had to go through a dark
night of the soul, which
was I was homeless.
I lived on the beaches.
I was cold and scared.
And I thought, God, why
have you forsaken me?
Why hasn't money showed up?
[CHUCKLES]
>>LISA: And you were here.
And you were helping
your brother.
>>GRAY: I came to California
to help my brother,
but I had no money, and I didn't
know where I was going to go.
And I had no job.
And I did have an old
car and a credit card
from my parents for gas.
So I would just drive
around from house
to house of women I'd meet.
And they'd make me dinner, and
sometimes I'd make love to them
and then move on.
I never wanted to
admit I had no money.
[CHUCKLES] But I would
be very friendly.
I'd read their palms.
>>LISA: [LAUGHS]
>>GRAY: And then
my car broke down.
Then my car broke down.
Oh, my god.
I had to live on the
beach, and I was hungry.
A friend came to me.
He knew.
I didn't ask for help,
and he said here's $50.
You might need it.
He's my friend for life.
I'll do anything for this.
Because in those days,
$50 is like $500.
And you're hungry--
what a gift that is.
And again, when those lessons,
and when somebody really
needs help, you help
them, particularly,
if they have a
connection with you.
You can't help everybody.
>>LISA: After a life of
celibacy for nine years,
that was probably
a gift for you.
Yes.
>>GRAY: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>GRAY: And, again,
everything that
happens-- that was really
one of the darkest moments
for me is living on
the beach and being
scared because half the
people are dangerous,
are mentally insane.
They were thrown out of
the mental hospitals,
and they're just
wandering around.
>>LISA: Yes, this
is a huge problem.
>>GRAY: And so what I would
do is I'd be on the beach,
and they'd build a fire.
And they're sitting
around the fire,
and they're drinking
beer from their checks
they get from the government.
And I'm teaching.
You know, I'm a teacher.
So I'm teaching love God
and all these things.
And one of the guys
said, John, have a drink.
Drink some beer.
Have a good time.
And I said no, I don't drink.
And then, I didn't drink.
I drink now a little bit.
But I said no, I don't drink.
He said, no, no,
you should have fun
because we love
listening to you talk.
We have no idea what you're
talking about, but we love it.
And right in that moment, that
was such a key moment for me
because I realized, oh, this
isn't where I'm supposed to be.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>GRAY: Because I was making
my suffering kind of noble,
that I was helping
all these people.
But it was a very
important awareness for me
to realize you can't
help everybody.
You have to find what
you're here to do.
It took a while for
me to find that.
And that, you stick to that.
You can't solve all the
problems in the world.
You stick to what
you're here to do.
If I did everything, nobody
else would have anything to do.
>>LISA: And you found that
through that deep, dark night
of the soul.
>>GRAY: Oh, again, I was in the
dark night of the soul there.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: Oh, it was
such a scary thing.
>>LISA: Now, when did you
develop this meditation
technique?
>>GRAY: OK, so then, after
being married to Bonnie
and learning about "Mars,
Venus" and developing
our masculine-feminine
energies, I
realized that people are
having trouble with meditation
because they're more advanced
than the techniques they're
doing.
So these techniques
started coming to me
through the energies
that speak to me,
and learning how to
simplify it, and simplify it
so that anybody could do it.
And it's the concept.
See, we're very
logical people now.
People were not so
logical in the past.
So just use the concept,
the logic of, OK,
there's this great power.
I want to feel you.
Come.
My heart is open.
>>LISA: Heart is open.
>>GRAY: I welcome you.
My heart is open to you.
Come.
Come into my awareness.
>>LISA: I need you.
>>GRAY: And then what I
learned from the masters
was fingertips.
>>LISA: OK.
>>GRAY: They'd always just
be aware of your fingertips.
Just, instantly, it comes.
The next thing is
it would amp up.
I would do these healings on
people who are really sick,
and my heart would
feel bleed for them.
And I'd say, Mother Mary, come.
I need your help.
And bang, she'd come
so strong when I need.
So I realized needing is
such an important part of it.
Then directing the energy--
heal this person or
open the channels.
Heal me.
So heal my body is
a basic, simple one
to open the channels so you can
feel this energy in your body.
So I need your help.
Heal my body.
So the next thing--
this is why it's called
natural resonance meditation.
I'm taking the flowers.
And you'll see that if
you were a Catholic,
and you wanted a blessing
from Mother Mary, say,
you would go to the thing,
and you would offer flowers.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: You would
offer a candle.
>>LISA: A light.
>>GRAY: A light.
You might offer some
gift-- whatever.
You give something.
Because, see, whenever
you give out of yourself,
you have space to receive.
So you're going to receive.
You have to give something.
>>LISA: That's interesting.
Yes.
>>GRAY: Now, if
you're in India, they
have what's called
[INAUDIBLE],, where
you would spend
eight hours where
they're chanting into a fire.
Again, a natural frequency--
fire is a natural frequency.
And you're throwing
things into it.
What that is is you're
calling forth the gods
to hear your prayer.
I'm giving you these offerings,
kind of like a business
transaction, but it's
all natural substances
that you're giving.
And if you're a royalty,
you throw in gold.
It's anything that you're
attached to, give it up.
It means more is
going to come in.
>>LISA: Creates more space.
>>GRAY: More space.
>>LISA: OK.
>>GRAY: But you don't always
have to give up everything.
You just have to have your
heart open to feel the energy.
Then so it's like, heal my body.
I need your help.
Heal my body.
Use these flowers
to heal my body.
So just put your hands
over the flowers like that.
>>LISA: Mm, roses have
such a beautiful frequency.
>>GRAY: They have a frequency.
They have a love frequency.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: And love is so healing.
Particularly women
like the flowers.
You can do crystals.
Some people respond
better to crystals.
>>LISA: Mm-hmm.
>>GRAY: Water is my favorite.
>>LISA: Anything
that has a frequency.
>>GRAY: Yeah, everything has--
>>LISA: Everything does.
>>GRAY: Everything-- but
these are natural frequencies.
>>LISA: OK.
>>GRAY: See if the divine energy
isn't fully flowing through me,
it's because some
part of me is blocked
so it's not resonate with that.
So when you have
blocks, you awaken
the energy, which we just did.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>GRAY: And then
we use the roses.
So just put our hands there.
And so you'd basically--
I need your help.
Heal my body.
Now, how do you heal the body?
Use these flowers.
So I'm offering you these
flowers to heal my body.
>>LISA: I can feel my
fingertips tingling.
>>GRAY: Yeah they will tingle.
And if anybody watching, if
they just got some flowers
or have a fireplace, take
incense and throw it in.
Take this offering of incense.
Smudging, many
people know about.
It's offering the smoke.
>>LISA: Or a crystal.
Anything.
>>GRAY: Crystals-- anything.
>>LISA: Now, does it pull the
energy away from the roses
so the roses will die?
>>GRAY: No, the roses love it.
First of all, all we're doing
right now is we're resonating.
That's the tingling
energy you get.
>>LISA: Gotcha.
OK.
>>GRAY: First we
have to resonate.
So when you resonate,
what happens
is the frequency in the rose,
because the heart is open,
the divine energy's here-- we're
asking for it to do something.
How are you going
to get into me?
It's going to use
the rose frequency.
So you have to give it
a channel to come to us.
>>LISA: Uh-huh.
>>GRAY: Now, if you went to
a healer, a gifted healer,
they're the channel.
See, there, go into a state,
and their pure frequency--
the energy will
flow through them.
But here's nature.
So always has it.
Water has it.
A view has it.
Music has it.
What's great about
this meditation
is you sit down, put your
fingers up, and listen
to music if it's holy mu--
I mean, if it's spiritual,
inspiring music,
and just use this
music to heal my body.
>>LISA: What if it is a
frequency that you don't know
if it's a positive frequency.
So say something like money or--
>>GRAY: Don't do money.
>>LISA: Definitely not money.
>>GRAY: Just do natural.
>>LISA: Yeah, natural.
>>GRAY: Your element--
your basic elements
of the whole thing.
>>LISA: Elements.
OK.
>>GRAY: The moon you can do.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: We just
had the full moon.
It was an amazing meditation.
The sun-- don't look at
the sun, but sit there,
sunbathing with the sun,
and feel the sun's rays
coming into you.
>>LISA: Natural energy.
>>GRAY: Feel the earth energy
coming up into your hands.
You're resonating.
Now, for people that don't
fully understand resonance--
I know many people do, but
not everybody really gets it.
If you're a piano tuner, you
have a little pipe over here,
or a little machine
that bakes out a C note.
The strings on the piano--
you turn them until they
get to that frequency,
and they'll automatically
start making sound.
>>LISA: To the C note.
>>GRAY: To the C note.
>>LISA: Nice.
>>GRAY: So there's
no wire connecting.
It's just this is
C. And suddenly,
what it will do is
when you've turned
to tighten it to the point
where a C can be expressed,
it comes up.
So that's why if I'm loving
my wife, for example,
and my heart is open to her,
it awakens my yin energy.
The female inside
of me comes forth.
You see, everybody wants
men to become more female.
But actually, men need to become
more masculine in their ability
to open women up.
Because when you
open a woman up,
your own female side comes up,
married to your own male side.
It's not about becoming
female for men.
It's becoming more masculine
to where you can embrace
the feminine with respect.
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes.
>>GRAY: And for women, when
they appreciate and love a man,
they're awaking their own
masculine power, which
can be combined with their
female power as opposed
to becoming masculine because
you can't depend on men.
Then you're disconnected
from the female.
So it's through love that we
can really find this wholeness
in our relationships.
And this helps us to find
it through our meditation.
And I find almost everybody
can do this easily.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: And it's so pleasing.
You suddenly feel this
energy and so then you--
so I'm going to come
back to the flow.
Oh, Divine Spirit, our
hearts are open to you.
Please come.
We need your help.
Heal our bodies.
Use these flowers
to heal our bodies.
And now you're feeling this kind
of a resonance with the flower.
The frequency of the flower
is shifting our frequency
to that of the flower.
And you know, this
is so automatic.
If somebody gets angry with
you, you get angry back.
What happened?
You just took on the frequency.
>>LISA: Matched their
frequency-- yes.
>>GRAY: If someone's afraid
of you, if they're defensive,
you get defensive towards them.
We are reflecting beings, so
put something in front of you
that loves, that's
all pure love--
love frequency, natural
elements, nature.
So we're resonating
natural resonance,
setting the intention.
Now, here's where it
gets really wonderful,
but I want everybody to feel it.
So I'm going to go through
the whole intention first,
and then we'll go
to the next level.
And this next level is the
awakening of the Kundalini.
OK.
This awakening the base chakra.
What we just did is
pull the energy down
through all of our centers.
And this is going
down to the base.
>>LISA: But we're also
pulling from the roses.
>>GRAY: Right now
we're just resonating.
>>LISA: OK, resonating.
>>GRAY: Resonating--
and we're going
to start waking up the
energy inside of us
through resonating with this.
You're pulling because
we did some practice.
It's easy to pull.
But first, you want
to just resonate.
And we're just resonating.
It'll sometimes
feel like pulling.
So now what's happening.
Great Spirit, our
hearts are open to you.
Please come.
I need your help.
Heal our body.
Open the channels for Lisa
and everybody watching.
Use these flowers to
activate the channels
in everyone's body.
And then this is the next step.
Using these flowers, send your
healing angels to bless us.
Send your healing angels to
bless everyone listening,
using these flowers right now.
The flower frequency--
through this frequency,
send your angels to awaken,
activate the healing energy
in our bodies.
You felt the shift?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: It's just so beautiful.
Very relaxing.
>>GRAY: And you can feel
all kinds [INAUDIBLE]..
Some people feel heat.
Some people feel
their hands get heavy.
Some people feel tingling
throughout their body.
Some people feel
their hands tingling.
Sometimes they
even kind of burn.
There's so much.
And sometimes it
will take a while
for the burning to go
away because just so
much activation has happened.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>GRAY: So now we're at
the base of the spine.
So the next thing is we're
going to bring the energy up.
>>LISA: OK.
>>GRAY: Now, we're just going
to bring it up to the heart.
That's good enough
for basic meditation.
So using these flowers,
send your angels
to activate the
energy in my body.
You feel activation.
You feel it in the fingertips.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: All right, now
you say, by your angels,
take away my blocked energy.
Using these flowers, take
away the blocked energy.
Now, where's the
blocked energies?
For some people watching, oh,
I'm positive all the time.
Then go back to a
time in your past
where you weren't positive.
>>LISA: It could also
be pain in your body.
>>GRAY: Oh, that's the easiest.
That's why pain goes so
quickly with energy healing.
Just feel the pain in your body.
Like for me, what I've been
doing over and over, which
helps me with my grieving
is using these flowers,
take away the pain in my
heart of missing my wife.
Take it away.
I love her so much.
Using these flowers,
by your angels,
take away the blocked
energy of my sadness.
And it's funny, because
sometimes when I'm doing this,
I go, I don't want
you to take it away.
[LAUGHS] I want to hold onto it
because we think that sadness
means I love you because
you only get sad if you do
love your partner.
But you can let
go of the sadness
and be happy again and
still love your partner.
>>LISA: And still
love your partner.
>>GRAY: And it goes in waves.
So using the
flowers, take away--
and a big one is take away fear.
Fear rules so much.
It's using these flowers,
take away the fear.
Take away the blocked
energy of my fears.
And you can process your
whole childhood this way.
Recall a time in your
childhood-- everyone listening,
recall a time in your
childhood when you were scared.
What were you afraid of?
What did you need?
What did you not have?
Go back at that time and
feel the fear that you felt.
And then asking God's
angels, using these flowers
by God's angels, take away
the blocked energy of my fear.
Let the flowers just
take that energy,
and particularly cut flowers.
They love the energy because
they're not connected
to the earth directly.
And they'll pull the energy.
>>LISA: And still
have a frequency.
>>GRAY: And some
people are afraid, oh,
I don't want my negativity
to go into the flowers.
But you're not saying
take away my negativity.
>>LISA: No.
>>GRAY: You're saying
take away the blocked
energy of my negativity.
>>LISA: I have been
sitting for hours today,
and my back was in so much pain.
And it is not in pain right now.
>>GRAY: Yeah, this is just
resonating with nature.
>>LISA: It's resonating with
these incredible flowers.
>>GRAY: Yes.
>>LISA: It just disappeared.
>>GRAY: It just
disappears-- just goes.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: And this
is how you let go
of the pain of grieving, any
emotional pain, physical pain.
>>LISA: And I
really put my focus
on what it is that I'm doing
here, and it takes the energy
and really puts the
focus on something
that's so much more powerful
than the stuck blocked pain.
>>GRAY: Yeah, if you just feel
your pain, you just reinforce,
I'm in pain.
>>LISA: Yes.
It's distracting.
>>GRAY: And you get in a loop.
And ideally, even when
you have the pain--
we've been talking a
lot about emotions.
With all pain, there's always
some emotion that goes with it.
So that's another
part of the healing.
But sometimes, if you're
really red-hot pain,
just take away the
blocked energy of my pain.
Take away my pain.
>>LISA: It is amazing
how that works.
>>GRAY: And it's like putting
your hand next to a fire.
Now, the energy's going out.
So think of now the energy
goes out for a little while,
and you feel it going out.
If ever it lessens, you say
the little prayer again,
which is Divine Spirit--
>>LISA: Divine Spirit--
>>GRAY: Our hearts
are open to you.
Please come.
>>LISA: Come.
>>GRAY: I need your help.
>>LISA: Your help.
>>GRAY: Heal my body.
Use these flowers
to heal my body.
Using these flowers,
send your angels.
By your angels, take away the
blocked energy of my fear.
Take it away, like a
mother holding a child.
You can amplify it with
little emotions there.
Like a mother holding me,
holding the little girl, little
boy I used to be.
Comfort him now.
Take away the blocked
energy of fear.
Take away the fear.
So as your energy's going out,
it's like you have a closet,
and it's stuffed with clothes--
old clothes you
don't wear anymore.
Get rid of all of it.
What do you do?
You're going to immediately
buy new clothes, new.
You fill up.
So you empty out--
>>LISA: Clear the space.
>>GRAY: You clear the space.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: It's always clearing
the space, and more can come in.
So what pulls energy in--
next phrase-- is
this is bringing it
up to your power center.
>>LISA: OK.
>>GRAY: OK.
The power center is what
you want and what you will.
So it's always
intention and desire
that pulls energy to you.
It's actually the people
who want the most,
often have the biggest upsets
because they really want a lot.
And when it doesn't happen,
that energy gets jammed.
Desire pulls energy to us.
We pull it.
The universe comes.
I want-- the universe sends us
energy to give us awareness,
the knowledge, the
insight, the motivation--
all that.
>>LISA: Contrast.
Yes.
>>GRAY: So when you want
to pull the energy back,
you just say, by your
healing angels, now,
using these flowers, send
your energy to fill me up.
Now you're pulling energy in.
And then the way you
keep doing it is now you
start thinking, what do I want.
Ah, all right.
Now, I want to be happy.
I want to feel, always,
love for my wife.
I want to always feel
my gratitude for her.
I want to share my
lessons I've learned.
I want to make this
world a better place.
I want-- whatever
you're wanting,
you just feel your soul's
desire at that time.
And often, soul's desire is
more like I want to feel safe.
I want to feel loving.
I want to give to the world.
I want my children to be happy.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: I want this
problem to be solved.
I want the harmony to happen.
And I want you to notice this.
Now, if when you're
feeling what you want,
think about world peace.
Think about what's happening
in the Middle East right now.
>>LISA: And in our own country.
>>GRAY: And in our own country,
thank you-- in our own country.
The fear, the terrified
people, the sadness, the grief,
the injustice--
through me, using these flowers,
by your healing angels--
you bring everybody
together-- bless these people.
Send them comfort.
And so much more energy comes.
Do you feel all that excess?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: Just broaden your game.
Think about the world, and
more energy flows through you.
>>LISA: And what
I just imagined,
which was so beautiful,
was everyone listening
as a connected family.
I call us the
"Inspirations" family.
And everyone watching this,
anytime they're watching this,
will connect into
this energy and send
that healing energy
to our bodies
and our planet and
our loved ones.
>>GRAY: And our planet and our
children and our loved ones.
>>LISA: Everybody.
>>GRAY: And this is a good
time, when your heart is open,
even to find forgiveness
for all those people
that it's hard to find.
Just say it in your heart.
I forgive you.
And I forgive you.
I wish you well.
You know, I may not ever want
to see you again, [CHUCKLES]
but I want you to be happy.
I want everybody to be.
There's a Buddhist prayer
that sometimes I'll
say when I'm pulling
energy in and letting it
flow through me to the world.
And it's "may all
beings be happy.
May all beings be safe.
And may all beings
everywhere be free."
But there's one more stage.
It's bringing the
energy up to the heart.
You've pulled the
energy in, and then
you just imagine all that
you've wanted has occurred.
>>LISA: Ah, that
is very important.
Yes.
>>GRAY: And using the flowers,
fill my heart with gratitude.
And you send energy
back to the flowers,
sharing it with the flowers.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GRAY: Right now, this is
where you're no longer taking.
It's like when somebody
gives you something,
you just want to give back.
So thank you.
Thank you.
And just feel gratitude for all,
for the world getting better,
for your children being happier,
for you feeling more peace
in your life, for the great
abundance in your life.
And I feel gratitude for
all the beautiful years
I shared with Bonnie, grateful
for her lessons and her love
and her support and
the beautiful family
we have as a result.
And it's gratitude
that heals us,
but you really feel it if you
first empty out, then receive,
and then you're grateful of
what you've just received.
And that's the gratitude.
And then you can
do the blessing.
"May all beings be happy.
May all beings be safe.
And may all beings
everywhere be free."
>>LISA: Mm.
>>GRAY: It's such a beautiful
little prayer at the end.
>>LISA: So beautiful.
Thank you so much, John.
>>GRAY: Oh, that
was such a pleasure.
Now I want you to share.
Did you feel energy
in your body?
Did you feel [INAUDIBLE].
>>LISA: Yes.
It's complete love.
My back pain went away.
I'm connected with
all those that
are watching in timelessness.
>>GRAY: And this is timeless.
50 years from now,
if we're doing this,
we're all in this moment
together because this
is in the timeless zone.
>>LISA: That's perf--
yes, it's beautiful.
It's beautiful.
I can't thank you
enough for this.
>>GRAY: Well, thank you
for letting me share this.
And I want people to now I
teach meditation classes.
And we went to the heart, but
you actually can go here, here,
back down here, back down
here, back down here,
back down here, and then
back, all the way up.
Now, there's many more
stations along the way,
but you have to get these
grounded ones to move
to the next, to the
next, to the next.
>>LISA: This is a
base you could--
>>GRAY: This is a foundation.
>>LISA: --start with.
>>GRAY: So you can start
with this meditation.
And you sit and
listen to music, even.
And it's so nice.
Put on your favorite
music and use the music.
I open my heart to, Spirit.
Use this music to open me
up, to send your angels.
>>LISA: Anything that has
a frequency, a natural--
>>GRAY: Positive
frequency for you--
>>LISA: Positive.
>>GRAY: --or music
that inspires you.
>>LISA: Beautiful.
Wow.
Well, thank you so
much for sharing
this incredible
experience with us.
And I really appreciate you
being a part of this show
and sharing your frequency
with us, every time you watch
"Inspirations."
You can watch more
"Inspirations" on Gaia.
I'm Lisa Garr, and I invite
you to always stay aware.
Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[WHOOSHING]
[CHIMES]